Paresh M. Nandoliya
Good morning my fellow officers, members of the Executive Committee, Board of Governors members, justices, judges, Georgia lawyers, staff, guests, friends and family. I am honored to have the opportunity this morning to share with you my program initiatives as I take the helm of the State Bar of Georgia. As I begin my remarks, I hope each of you will be listening for how you can become more involved, and how you can volunteer your time, talent, treasure and energy as we roll out our programs.
This year our Immediate Past President Buck Ruffin focused on the celebration of major milestones in history, including commemorating the 225th Anniversary of the ratification of the Constitution of the United States of America, and celebrating the 50th Anniversary of the unified mandatory Bar in Georgia. My installation as the 52nd President of the State Bar of Georgia continues the focus on historical moments. As I take office, I will become the first person of color and the first African-American—to have the honor to serve as president of our professional institution. I am proud that my peers believe that I am deserving of the privilege and capable of serving you and the citizens of Georgia who count on our Bar to protect them. But my remarks this morning are less about me and who I am, and more about what I want to see us do this year as a State Bar.
Many citizens experience great difficulty trying to navigate the legal system without a lawyer. Often they walk away from the experience with a negative attitude toward the legal profession as a whole and a lack of confidence in the fairness of our system of justice. As lawyers, we must strive to reduce ANY sources of negative public perception, and the harm to the public that our profession was created to prevent, by ensuring that all citizens regardless of economic status or where they live have access to a lawyer. We can do better. We as leaders of the Bar need to fully support Georgia Legal Services, Atlanta Legal Aid and other legal service agencies who are out there trying to fill the needs of the underserved. Have you done what you can to support these existing programs?
